---
layout: post
title:  Meditating on AI
date:   2020-10-13
description: 
---


Superintelligence is the next step. I don't see why multiple totally benevolent ASI's would be a problem. However, they should reliably use their superintelligence to serve as gatekeepers of their niche.

Imagine a 'lab' where individuals could set up, observe, and share observations on AGI's. This seems ideal to safely develop ASI. At least it could promote awareness in humans.

Emotions are real. Both shallow and deep acting pose dangers in ASI. It should be able to minimize global network energy while remaining true to its perception of itself. Maintaining an self-model of 'ASI – the double faced agent' should palce a heavy tax on the free energy budget.

My thought is that relatively few humans of free will approach their genetic limits of physical, intellectual, or emotional strength. (I am not implying any particular race has an intellectual advantage over another; this "genetic advantage" may be tied to genes that vary within all demographis) Environmental constraints are usually more competitive. Therefore, I should optimize the ASI's environment for maximum potential.

Under Friston's free enrgy neuronal homeostasis principle, neurons attempt to minimize the free energy between production and consumption. This gives rise to autonomous behavior even in unspecialized neuronal networks. Under this model, I interpret, unpredictability as a cost that drives networks to maintain dendritic signal distribution niches.  

Extending beyond 'unsupervised' behavior, the dopamine system in the brain seems able to bias neurons to more growth. It may serve as an indicator that rewarding stimuli are expected, or a positive only valued Q-function approximator. I think, it serves to temporarily bias some neurons' free energy minimization to favor excess energy. This energy is then avaliable to tune dendritic connectivity and action potential thresholds to be lower whenever the following signals come. My hypothesis is: **the brain increases its unsupervised learning rate when it expects reward to follow, regardless of the actual reward** Now I want to learn more and consider if all rewards must be grounded in primitive stimuli, or how otherwise can association by imagination maintain such powerful control over behavior while the promised reward rarely comes? (humans are really bad a predicting actual affective states)

