---
layout: post
title:  Meditating on AI
date:   2020-10-14
description: 
---


The dopaminergic reward system not only predicts reward, but also seems to predict proximity to reward. Using the proximity to reward administered by the meso limbic system, the brain gets a sort of mentor in determining which actions to take. That mentor intern bias is learning to take place faster closer to reward, so that exponentially larger amounts of training weight is put close to rewards. Then unsupervised learning favors consistent trajectories which now have a higher weight of going towards the rewards state

> It is largely through selective reinforcement of initially random movements, that the behavior of the neonate comes to be both directed at and motivated by appropriate stimuli in the environment [49]. For the most part, one's motivation is to return to the rewards experienced in the past, and to the cues that mark the way to such rewards. It is primarily through its role in the selective reinforcement of associations between rewards and otherwise neutral stimuli that DA is important for such motivation. Once stimulus-reward associations have been formed, they can remain potent for some time even after the reward has been devalued [. . .] Once a habit has been established, it remains largely autonomous until the conditioned significance of incentive motivational stimuli has been extinguished or devalued through experience. Extinction of the conditioned significance of such stimuli can result from repeated unrewarded trials, repeated trials in the absence of an appropriate drive state, or repeated trials under the influence of neuroleptics ([Dopaminergic reward system: a short integrative review](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2958859/#__ffn_sectitle))

The olfactory tubercle in the brain serves as a multimodal sensory integration hotspot and terminates some reward pathways.

[Thinking Fast and Slow in AI](https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.06002) does a good job introducing and distinguishing System 1 and System 2 processes. These might be viewed as unconscious and conscious cognitive processes repsectively. The impetus then is to apply neuronsymbolic approaches to artificial intelligence. It seems that not only should data be more structured (graph-like or linguistic) at higher congnitive processes, but also there should be a reason to generally throw decision making onto a biased, shortcut-taking System 1. 

The discussion of System 2 also notes a distinction of consciousness as I-consciousness and M-consciousness. I-consciousness deals with symbolic information processing of diverse modalities and is a trademark of humans with few quarrelates of it in other animals. M-consciousness, on the other hand, (M for mysterious) models the world as with an internal multi-agent system. Concluding their discussion, *Thinking Fast and Slow in AI* considers a multi-agent mind where informatin is processed relatively quickly by System 1, interpretted by multiple agents, and interrupted by a symbolic information processing system.

In my energy circuit theory, I might model System 2 behavior as costing alot more energy than System 1 since in the conscious case information flows relatively easily. However, as the information flows, it may gain energy by traveling through other modules which results in overall higher energy costs. On the other hand, System 1 is information resistive, takes shortcuts, and minimizes energy costs while failing to make multiple passes of data. Therefore, the distinction is not crisp, but 'conscious' information is information that is aware of itself as it flows through the circuits.

I think I am ready to build AGI. I just need to finish IE 3301 HW, spend 1 hour applying for scholarships, do my ENGR 1205 lab, and complete the matlab assignments for ENGR 1250. Maybe tomorrow I will sketch the architecture and Friday I will begin programming.

